DOCS-10584 (#28791)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/software_catalog/eng_reports/reliability_overview.md

---
title: Reliability Overview
further_reading:
- link: "/service_management/service_level_objectives/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Service Level Objectives"
- link: "service_management/incident_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Incident Management"
- link: "dashboards/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Datadog Dashboards"
---

> {{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/engineering-reports/" d_target="#signupModal" btn_hidden="false" header="Opt in to the preview for Engineering Reports!" >}}
> {{< /callout >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/engineering-reports/" d_target="#signupModal" btn_hidden="false" header="Opt in to the Preview for Engineering Reports!" >}}
{{< /callout >}}
```

## Overview

The Reliability Overview report supports aggregated views of SLOs and Incidents to help executive leadership understand your organization's reliability at a glance. 

With this report, you can:
- Customize your SLO or Incident groupings to be based on service, team, or other tags or properties that have been added to your SLOs or Incidents.

> - Use a summary Score, based on the remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, to understand SLO performance across different groups and identify areas of improvement.

Reviewer: Just verifying that Score should be capped here?

> - Use a summary Score, based on the remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, to understand SLO performance across different groups and identify areas of improvement.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use a summary score, based on the remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, to understand SLO performance across different groups and identify areas of improvement.
```

{{< img src="tracing/eng_reports/reliability-overview-landing2.png" alt="Default view of the Reliability Overview report, which shows SLO Performance data" style="width:100%;" >}} 

**Note:** If you have not opted into the Datadog IDP Preview, you can access the Reliability Overview report by clicking on the "Reports" tab at the top of the Software Catalog page.

## Interact with your Reliability Overview report

### Adjust your view

{{< img src="tracing/eng_reports/reliability-overview-filtered2.png" alt="Reliability Overview page with an arrow highlighting the filtering options" style="width:100%;" >}} 

You can update your Reliability Overview report view in the following ways:
 
- **Switch the aggregation between "Service" or "Team"**: View your organization's SLO and Incident performance by service/team groupings to identify top- and bottom-performing areas. 

   **Note**: Service/team groupings are based on the **service** or **team** tag added to your SLOs, and the **services** or **teams** properties added to your Incidents.

> - **View "Daily", "Weekly", or "Monthly" historical information**: Update the historical SLO and Incident trends to your desired granularity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **View daily, weekly, or monthly historical information**: Update the historical SLO and Incident trends to your desired granularity.
```

- **Add filters to scope the data**: Filter by teams, services, and incident severity and state.

### Schedule reports

> Set up scheduled reports for your stakeholders that will be delivered as PDFs through Email or Slack on a recurring basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up scheduled reports for your stakeholders that are delivered as PDFs through email or Slack on a recurring basis.
```

To schedule reports, click on **Schedule Report** in the top right corner (or **Manage Reports** if you've already set up reports). Refer to the [Scheduled Reports documentation][1] for more information.

### Customize your report 

On the upper right corner of the report, click the kebab menu and select **Clone as a Dashboard** to create a dashboard with content from the Reliability Overview report. 

To customize the dashboard, you can:
- Update the SLO Summary table to group by any tag you have added to your SLOs (for example, you can create a view grouped by "user journey")
- Add widgets that are not included in the default view

> - Add filters to the existing widgets (for example, you can filter Incidents based on "Detection Method" not provided in the out-of-the-box report)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add filters to the existing widgets (for example, you can filter Incidents based on "Detection Method")
```
I found the removed part difficult to parse, I think if the meaning is just "you can get a view that isn't in the OOTB report," that's implied by the term "filter"

## Use the SLO summary score

{{< img src="tracing/eng_reports/slo-summary-score2.png" alt="The SLO Summary widget, including the SLO summary score" style="width:100%;" >}}

> The **SLO Summary** widget includes a "Score". It is designed as a summary metric for executive leadership to understand the performance of a group of SLOs. The Score is calculated based on the average remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, which is then mapped to a score between 0 - 100:

Author: ```suggestion
The **SLO Summary** widget includes a "score". It is designed as a summary metric for executive leadership to understand the performance of a group of SLOs. The score is calculated based on the average remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, which is then mapped to a score between 0 - 100:
```

> - The Score is "passing" (green/yellow) when most SLOs are **not** breached and have remaining error budget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Score is "passing" (green/yellow) when most SLOs are **not** breached and have remaining error budget.
```

> - The Score is "failing" (red) when many SLOs are out of error budget or a few SLOs are far out of error budget

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Score is "failing" (red) when many SLOs are out of error budget or a few SLOs are far out of error budget.
```

> - The Score is "passing" (green/yellow) when most SLOs are **not** breached and have remaining error budget.
> - The Score is "failing" (red) when many SLOs are out of error budget or a few SLOs are far out of error budget.
> - SLOs in the "No Data" state are not considered in the Score.

Author: ```suggestion
- The score is "passing" (green/yellow) when most SLOs are **not** breached and have remaining error budget.
- The score is "failing" (red) when many SLOs are out of error budget or a few SLOs are far out of error budget.
- SLOs in the "No Data" state are not considered in the score.
```

> - SLOs in the "No Data" state are not considered in the Score

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SLOs in the "No Data" state are not considered in the Score.
```

### Score calculation details

> The Score is calculated as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
The score is calculated as follows:
```

{{< jqmath-vanilla >}}

$$
\text"Average Remaining Error Budget"
      = {∑_{i=0}^{n}\\text"[Remaining Error Budget]"_i} / n
$$

$$
\text"Score"
      = {max(\text"[Average Remaining Error Budget]"\,-200) + 200} / 300 * 100
$$

> - Average the remaining error budget of the SLOs (the minimum error budget is set to -200%, so any SLO with a lower error budget will be counted as -200% in the average)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Average the remaining error budget of the SLOs (the minimum error budget is set to -200%, so any SLO with a lower error budget will be counted as -200% in the average).
```

> - The average error budget (between -200 and 100) is mapped to a Score between 0 and 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The average error budget (between -200 and 100) is mapped to a Score between 0 and 100.
```
Might be worth giving each of these bullets the same structure, like "Map the average to ..."

> - The color and status of the Score is set based on the thresholds below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The color and status of the Score is set based on the thresholds below.
```

> Note that an average remaining error budget of 0% corresponds to a Score value of 66.667. The Score's status and color is based on the following thresholds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that an average remaining error budget of 0% corresponds to a Score value of 66.667. The Score's status and color are based on the following thresholds:
```

> - Average the remaining error budget of the SLOs (the minimum error budget is set to -200%, so any SLO with a lower error budget will be counted as -200% in the average).
> - The average error budget (between -200 and 100) is mapped to a Score between 0 and 100.
> - The color and status of the Score is set based on the thresholds below.
> 
> Note that an average remaining error budget of 0% corresponds to a Score value of 66.667. The Score's status and color are based on the following thresholds:
> - **Red:** 0 ≤ Score < 66.667
> - **Yellow:** 66.667 ≤ Score < 80
> - **Green:** 80 ≤ Score ≤ 100

Author: ```suggestion
- Average the remaining error budget of the SLOs (the minimum error budget is set to -200%, so any SLO with a lower error budget will be counted as -200% in the average).
- Map the average error budget (between -200 and 100) to a score between 0 and 100.
- Set the color and status of the score based on the following thresholds:
  - **Red:** 0 ≤ Score < 66.667
  - **Yellow:** 66.667 ≤ Score < 80
  - **Green:** 80 ≤ Score ≤ 100

**Note**: An average remaining error budget of 0% corresponds to a Score value of 66.667. 
```

---
title: Reliability Overview
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/software_catalog/"
  tag: "Documentation"
---

{{< callout url="#" btn_hidden="true" header="false" >}}
Engineering Reports are in Preview. TODO: link to sign-up form.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

{{< img src="tracing/eng_reports/reliability_overview.mp4" video=true alt="A video scrolling through the Reliability Overview report, which includes sections for SLO Performance and Incident Trends, grouped by team" style="width:100%;" >}}

> 

Author: All noted! I'll push the other changes first and then work on the vids.

   **Note**: Service/team groupings are based on the **service** or **team** tag added to your SLOs, and the **services** or **teams** properties added to your Incidents.

- **View "Daily", "Weekly", or "Monthly" historical information**: Update the historical SLO and Incident trends to your desired granularity.
- **Add filters to scope the data**: Filter by teams, services, and incident severity and state.

### Schedule reports

Set up scheduled reports for your stakeholders that will be delivered as PDFs through Email or Slack on a recurring basis.

To schedule reports, click on **Schedule Report** in the top right corner (or **Manage Reports** if you've already set up reports). Refer to the [Scheduled Reports documentation][1] for more information.

### Customize your report 

On the upper right corner of the report, click the kebab menu and select **Clone as a Dashboard** to create a dashboard with content from the Reliability Overview report. The dashboard reflects the "team" aggregated view and includes weekly historical trends. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Can take out the 2nd sentence here (this dashboard reflects...). Not relevant/accurate any more.

## Use the SLO summary score

{{< img src="tracing/eng_reports/slo-summary-score.png" alt="The SLO Summary widget, including the SLO summary score" style="width:100%;" >}}

The **SLO Summary** widget includes a "Score". It is designed as a summary metric for executive leadership to understand the performance of a group of SLOs. The Score is calculated based on the average remaining error budget of the underlying SLOs, which is then mapped to a score between 0 - 100:

- The Score is "passing" (green/yellow) when most SLOs are **not** breached and have remaining error budget
- The Score is "failing" (red) when many SLOs are out of error budget or a few SLOs are far out of error budget
- SLOs in the "No Data" state are not considered in the Score

### Score calculation details

The Score is calculated as follows:
- Average the remaining error budget of the SLOs (the minimum error budget is set to -200%, so any SLO with a lower error budget will be counted as -200% in the average)
- The average error budget (between -200 and 100) is mapped to a Score between 0 and 100
- The color and status of the Score is set based on the thresholds below

> 

Reviewer 3: cc @mmeyer724
